# Events

Events describe Customer actions. Events are composed of a Type, Action and additional metadata via fields on the event.

The **Event Type** is a categorical name associated with the event. 

The **Event Action** is the activity a user did within that event type.

For example, `order` and `product` are Event Types while `purchase`, `return`, `add_to_cart`, `detail` would be actions.

## Standard vs. Custom

Zaius has two types of events: **Standard** & **Custom**.

{% hint style="info" %}
At minimum, events require an event type and an identifier to associate the event with a customer.
{% endhint %}

## Standard Events

**Standard Events** are events that have a pre-defined event type/action and expected by Zaius to be accompanied with certain fields. **The usage of these events makes the usage of Zaius simpler for common use cases.**

### Standard Use Case Events

For common events, based on use case \(e.g. products, orders, ratings, surveys, loyalty, etc\), refer to the appropriate use case documentation:

{% page-ref page="../../use-cases/marketing/" %}

{% page-ref page="../../use-cases/ecommerce/" %}

{% page-ref page="../../use-cases/loyalty-and-rewards.md" %}

### Standard Generic Events

#### Account Events

| `type` | `action` |
| :--- | :--- |
| account | login |
| account | logout |
| account | register |
| account  | update |

#### Page View Events

| `type` | `page` |
| :--- | :--- |
| pageview | /products/12345 |

{% hint style="info" %}
The Web SDK will automatically populate the `page` field when event type is `pageview`
{% endhint %}

#### Navigation Events

| `type` | `action` | `search_term` |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
| navigation | search | cameras |
| navigation | sort |  |
| navigation | filter |  |

### Custom Events

**Custom Events** are events that you create the event type/action for and choose what fields to use and/or create.

#### Example

| type | action | venue\_name |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
| venue | visited | TD Garden |

To begin sending events to Zaius, refer to the specific documentation for your platform:

{% page-ref page="reference/" %}

## Active Events

{% hint style="danger" %}
This is only to be used for the rare case you have an event that is not triggered by a customer. Abuse of this functionality may result in a loss of data.
{% endhint %}

This is helpful for events like campaign sends, subscription and support ticket events generated by an agent where the customer wasn't the direct source of the event.  

This field allows Zaius to determine if an event was active or not. If it's set to `true`, then that is considered customer activity.  
  
What this means is that **the event will impact our calculation of Monthly Active Users \(MAUs\)**, it also allows us to exclude from certain engagement reporting like Customer Lifecycle when appropriate.

### Automatic Active Events

{% hint style="warning" %}
If the field is left blank, we'll set the value to `true` by default, meaning the event will be assumed to be active.
{% endhint %}

| Field Display Name | **Field Name** | Field Type | Field Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Is Active Event? | `active_event` | True / False `boolean` | **Indicates whether this event should contribute to Monthly Active User \(MAU\) calculations. Is false if the event is not triggered directly by the customer, examples include campaign sends and support tickets being closed. If not set, will be set to “true”, making the event active.** |

| Event Type | Action |
| :--- | :--- |
| customer\_discovered |  |
| campaign |  |
| consent |  |
| reachability |  |
| list |  |
| email | any action not open or click |
| push | any action not open or click |

Some events, are set to inactive by default \(`active_event` = `false`\):

{% hint style="info" %}
This can be overridden by a developer if needed by including the field on the event payload.
{% endhint %}

